--------------------
http://web.archive.org/web/20150731153506id_/http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3055646/Did-exaggerated-records-make-global-warming-look-worse-Scientists-investigate-adjusted-temperatures-skewed-data.html

Climate sceptic group Global Warming Policy Foundation launch inquiry
Panel drawn from leading universities includes experts with differing views
Will look at whether 'adjustments' made to records cancel each other out 
Says it hopes people from all areas of climate change will help the panel 


 An international panel of scientists will today launch a major inquiry to discover whether official world temperature records have exaggerated the extent of global warming. The panel, convened by the Global Warming Policy Foundation (GWPF), the ‘climate sceptic’ think-tank led by the former Tory Chancellor Lord Lawson, will focus on thousands of ‘adjustments’ that have been made to temperature records kept at individual weather stations around the world. Sceptics have argued that the effect of such adjustments – made when instruments are replaced or recalibrated, or heat-producing buildings are erected close to weather station sites – has skewed the records. The panel will also examine ‘extrapolations’ – when the records include virtual figures from places where there is no actual measuring station, instead basing them on the figures of other stations in the same region. In some areas, such as the Arctic, these may be hundreds of miles away. Sceptics claim that the effect of the adjustments is usually to revise temperatures from decades ago downwards, and to increase recent readings, so that the warming trend of the past 150 years looks larger than it really is. The panel has been drawn from leading universities around the world, and includes scientists with widely differing views on climate change. Panel member Professor William van Wijngaarden, a physicist and climate expert from York University in Toronto, said he had been concerned about the records’ quality for many years, after noticing that when you examined an individual station ‘you’ll see a sudden jump’. Such jumps, he said, were not natural, but the product of adjustments. ‘Sometimes you get “corrected” data without knowing exactly how it has been changed. I’m a scientist. I’m not going into this with any preconceptions. But if some of the corrections have not been properly made, then we’ll find out. We want to see all the actual station data.’ Dr Benny Peiser, the GWPF director, said the panel would try to look at all the thousands of stations whose data goes into the three main world temperature records – those kept by the Met Office, Nasa, and the US government agency that deals with weather. ‘The question is, do the adjustments balance each other out?’ he asked. ‘Do they make half the stations a little warmer, and half a little cooler, or is there evidence of bias? ‘It may turn out there is no problem. It may that there is.’ He said the panel’s work would be ‘transparent’, with all data made available though a public website. The panel’s chairman is Professor Terence Kealey, former vice-chancellor of the University of Buckingham. He said: ‘While we believe that the 20th Century warming is real, we are concerned by claims that the actual trend is different from – or less certain than – has been suggested. ‘We hope to perform a valuable public service by getting everything out into the open. ‘We hope that people who are concerned with the integrity of climate science, from all sides of the debate, will help us to get to the bottom of these questions by telling us what they know about the temperature records and the adjustments made to them.’  

--------------------
http://web.archive.org/web/20150603183746id_/http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3060883/Hackers-MEDICAL-equipment-Security-experts-discover-telesurgery-robots-risk-cyber-attacks.html

Researchers at the University of Washington studied so-called telerobots
They found robots designed for surgery could be hacked  and manipulated
This is because robots being tested were operated over public networks
It allowed the researchers to access them and stop them working 


 A flaw in robots designed to perform surgery has been found that lets them be easily hacked, according to researchers. The experts were able to take control of a so-called telerobot during surgery by exploiting a simple programming trick. This enabled them to change the speed of the arms of the robot and change their orientation, making it impossible for the machines to carry out a procedure as directed. The research was carried out by scientists at the University of Washington by toying with a product from their own university - the Raven II teleoperated robotical surgeon. Teleoperation means an operator can use the robot remotely, through a control console. The first telesurgery took place in 2001 with a surgeon in New York successfully removing the gall bladder of a patient in France, more than 3,730 miles (6,000km) away. The communications ran over a dedicated fiber provided by a telecommunications company.  But this is an expensive option since such fibers can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Since then, surgeons have carried out remote operations and begun to experiment with ordinary communications links over the web, which are significantly cheaper. Although there are no recorded incidents in which the communications infrastructure has caused problems during a telesurgery operation, there are still questions over security and privacy, said the experts.  Source: MIT Technology Review   In the case of Raven II, a remote operator users two long and thin arms to perform complex procedures where otherwise their hands might not be capable. While this experiment was performed in a controlled environment and not on the operating table, the researchers said it's clear more stringent security measures are needed. Raven II runs on a single PC, and communicates with a control console using a standard communications protocol known as Interoperable Telesurgery Protocol. But rather than take place over a secure private network, this takes place over public networks. ‘Due to the open and uncontrollable nature of communication networks, it becomes easy for malicious entities to jam, disrupt, or take over the communication between a robot and a surgeon,’ said the researchers. In their test, the experts performed various types of cyberattack to see how easily it could be disrupted. This included changing the commands sent by an operator to the robot, modifying signals or hijacking - completely taking over - the robot. And they were also able to ‘easily stop the robot from ever being properly reset, thus effectively making a surgical procedure impossible.’ The researchers note that while their test applies only to Raven II, other surgical robots that use similar teleoperation were likely also at risk. ‘Some of these attacks could have easily been prevented by using well-established and readily-available security mechanisms, including encryption and authentication,’ the researchers note. We believe that presented concerns are not unique to teleoperated surgery, but are common to all teleoperated robots. ‘Because of the wide variety of physical and digital capabilities these systems wield, telerobotic security needs to become front-and-centre.’ The findings are published in the paper: To Make a Robot Secure: An Experimental Analysis of Cyber Security Threats Against Teleoperated Surgical Robots on arXiv.

--------------------
http://web.archive.org/web/20150409081411id_/http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/boxing/article-3023768/Jack-Johnson-100-years-story-race-hate-fight-split-America.html

After beating Tommy Burns in 1908, Jack Johnson became the first ever black world heavyweight champion
He held the belt for six years and Sunday will mark the 100 year anniversary of his last title defence
During a particularly racist period of American history, Johnson's title reign was met with many protests
Johnson was eventually defeated by Jess Willard in 1915, following 26 brutal rounds in the sweltering heat of Cuba 


 From the moment Jack Johnson beat Tommy Burns to win the world heavyweight title in 1908, a frenzied search began. While Johnson's victory wouldn't raise an eyebrow nowadays, it caused consternation in America for one simple reason: Johnson was black — and a black man had never held sport's greatest prize. Racism was rife in America: black people were not supposed to rule over whites in any sphere of life. As the great boxing pundit Bert Sugar put it, 'This was the white man's crown. (To white America), it was as if the white man's slave had become his master.' It is difficult to convey to a reader in 2015 the shockwaves that Johnson's victory caused. Even liberal newspapers, such as The New York Times, were openly hostile to the giant Texan. It mattered little that Johnson was American. His skin was deemed the wrong colour and a great cry went up from white America to find a white challenger — a 'Great White Hope' — who could unseat the new champion. But little did white America know that it would take over six years before Johnson would be defeated, on April 5, 1915, 100 years ago on Sunday. Most had believed Johnson would be dispatched quickly. However, he made short work of his first four title defences, his most notable victory coming over world middleweight champion Stanley Ketchel who made the massive step up in weight and even managed to knock Johnson down. Yet Johnson had been fighting in second gear until that point and, as soon as he returned to his feet, scored a brutal knockout, uprooting several of Ketchel's teeth in the process. Attention immediately turned to finding another 'white hope'. There seemed an obvious choice: former world heavyweight champion James J Jeffries, who had retired undefeated in 1904. Jeffries, who as champion had dodged Johnson, was seen as someone who could quickly defeat the title holder and return things to the way they were. Things didn't go as planned. Six years out of the ring had taken its toll on Jeffries and in 1910 Johnson stopped the former champion in 15 rounds, further enraging whites who rioted, taking out their anger on blacks who had the temerity to celebrate Johnson's win. As many as 26 black people would be killed by lynch mobs. What made Johnson even more unbearable to white America was the way he lived his life. A fun-loving character, Johnson dated and married white women, and refused to live according to the social norms of the time. He was intelligent, eloquent and ambitious and saw no reason why his being black should hold him back from doing whatever he wanted. Like Muhammad Ali years later, he was a trailblazer. He suffered dreadful discrimination, death threats and later persecution at the hands of the government. He took most of it in his stride. The same cannot be said of his detractors whose efforts to unseat him became increasingly desperate. In 1912, one opponent, 'Fireman' Jim Flynn, was disqualified for repeatedly trying to headbutt Johnson. Things were getting ridiculous, but Johnson's life outside the ring was unravelling. He spent money like it grew on trees and was being investigated by the US government on the spurious charge of abducting his future second wife under what was known as the Mann Act, a dubious piece of legislation designed to prevent 'white slavery'. He was found guilty by an all-white jury and sentenced to a year in prison. Johnson had other ideas. He fled to Canada and then to Europe, fighting three times in Paris, where he made history by beating 'Battling' Jim Johnson in the first-ever all-black heavyweight championship bout. Next he outpointed American Frank Moran over 20 rounds, though the purses for the fight were frozen after a dispute. With his money running low and the First World War breaking out in Europe, he accepted the challenge of another 'white hope' from America. His name was Jess Willard, a 6ft 6in fighter, known as 'The Pottawatomie Giant.' To put Willard's size into perspective, the average height of an American man at the time was 5ft 7in. The fight would take place in Cuba and was scheduled for 45 three-minute rounds, a hell of a distance given the 40-degree heat on the day. How would Johnson, now 37, handle a challenger four years his junior? The champion had, quite arrogantly, barely trained for the fight. Still, Willard was certainly the underdog: his size meant he was not particularly agile and he did not like hurting opponents unless they had hurt him first. Johnson was supremely confident. Johnson dominated the opening 10 rounds but his lack of conditioning soon began to tell. His breathing became heavy, amid the sweltering heat, and Willard grew in confidence. The writing was on the wall at the end of round 25. Johnson, sat on his stool, called over fight promoter Jack Curley. 'Jack, go take my wife away...tell her I'm awful weak and I want her to leave.' In the next round Willard seized his chance. He faked to throw a left to the body and then swung a mighty overhand right that connected perfectly with Johnson's jaw. Johnson slumped to the canvas and took the count flat on his back. It was the victory that white America had been waiting for but was all as it seemed? Photographs of the knockout appeared to show Johnson shielding his eyes from the sun and he would later claim this was because he had deliberately taken a fall. His motivation, Johnson said, was a $50,000 payout and a promise from the American authorities that he could finally return to his homeland without having to serve his prison sentence. Johnson's 'confession' was sold for a fee to Nat Fleischer, the respected founder of The Ring magazine. But Fleischer never believed Johnson, while Willard was bitter about Johnson's claim, especially as the victory was his finest hour. 'If he was going to throw the fight I wish he'd done it sooner,' Willard said. 'It was hotter than hell out there.' Much of the public believed Johnson and they had not seen the film of the contest as there was a ban on it being shown. It would take 40 years for the footage to see the light of day. When it did surface, Willard was vindicated, the film clearly showing him land a powerful blow. 'I've waited a long time but at last people are beginning to believe me when I say I that I beat Johnson fair and square.' Willard confronted Johnson over his claims in 1944. 'I asked him why he made his false statement,' Willard recalled. 'He just shrugged and gave me that gold-toothed smile of his. Jack knew and I knew he was lying. But the fella was desperate for money, so who could blame him.' Johnson would eventually end his exile and continue fighting into the 1930s. Tragically he would die in a car crash in 1946, speeding away from a diner that refused him service on account of his race. Willard would lose his world title in only his second defence, suffering an awful beating at the hands of Jack Dempsey before retiring to his farm in Kansas.  

--------------------
http://web.archive.org/web/20150423100224id_/http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-3049659/Former-Premier-League-referee-Mark-Halsey-says-decision-overlook-Mark-Clattenburg-FA-Cup-final-joke.html

Jon Moss will take charge of FA Cup final between Arsenal and Aston Villa
Mark Halsey has slammed the FA for overlooking Mark Clattenburg
Former Premier League referee Halsey has called the decision 'a joke'


 Former Premier League referee Mark Halsey has slammed the FA’s decision to put Jon Moss in charge of the FA Cup final instead of Mark Clattenburg. Halsey said the English game would be a ‘laughing stock’ over the decision to ignore Clattenburg, one of only two English referees in the UEFA elite ranks — for the final between Aston Villa and Arsenal on May 30. ‘Greg Dyke (Chairman of the FA) has got to look at the appointment process for the FA Cup referee because, frankly, it’s a joke,’ said Halsey. ‘I don’t blame Jon Moss. But is he the best man for the job? Absolutely not. ‘It’s clear Mark Clattenburg should be in charge. He’s consistently our outstanding referee who proves himself on the biggest stage.’ Halsey thinks Clattenburg, who has never refereed an FA Cup final, has been overlooked as The Professional Game Match Officials Board (PGMO) would prefer Martin Atkinson to go to Euro 2016 next summer. ‘We’ll be a laughing stock around the world,’ Halsey wrote on sports networking site Kicca. ‘I don’t think the hierarchy want Clattenburg to go the European Championship next summer. This is their way of sending out a message to UEFA that Clattenburg isn’t our top ref.’

--------------------
http://web.archive.org/web/20150401162709id_/http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-3021359/Scotland-s-Euro-2016-qualifier-Georgia-place-closed-doors-following-pitch-invasions-Tbilisi.html

UEFA will make a decision on September's match on May 21 
Scotland are set to face Georgia in Tbilisi on September 4 
UEFA has opened disciplinary proceedings against the Georgian Football Federation following recent crowd trouble 
Georgia fans twice invaded the field of play during Sunday's 2-0 defeat to Germany in Tbilisi
Scotland currently sit third in Group D, a point behind leaders Poland 


  Scotland will discover on May 21 if September's Euro 2016 qualifier with Georgia will be played behind closed doors. UEFA has announced it has opened disciplinary proceedings against the Georgian Football Federation (GFF) after fans twice invaded the field of play during Sunday's 2-0 defeat by Germany in Tbilisi. European football's governing body is also set to look at charges that allege home fans were guilty of setting off fireworks while a string of safety breaches, including blocked stairs, locked gates and a lack of body searches by staff at the Boris Paichadze Stadium, will also be investigated. UEFA's Control, Ethics and Disciplinary Body will decide the case on May 21. The GFF has already vowed to tighten up security in the wake of those crowd disturbances. But GFF president Zviad Sichinava admits he fears UEFA will force him to shut the stadium for the September 4 meeting with Gordon Strachan's side, throwing Scottish supporters' travel plans into chaos. He said: 'Delegates from UEFA are already sending reports and unfortunately there will be monetary sanctions. 'Also the next Georgia home game - against Scotland - could be held without spectators.' Scotland currently sit third in Group D, a point behind leaders Poland. Georgia are fifth, with just one win from five games.  

