The Sun is obviously the number one source of energy for life on Earth. It has, however, also other interesting properties such as a highly variable and far reaching magnetic field. The magnetic field of the Sun has practical significance for space weather, but understanding it is especially crucial for unraveling the physics of our Sun. 
 
The magnetic field has visible manifestations on the solar surface, most famously dark sunspots which have been of interest for humans for hundreds of years. From the photosphere the field can also be measured in terms of splitting of spectral lines. These measurements have important use as boundary conditions, when modeling the magnetic field further away from the Sun in the corona where gas density does not allow direct measurements.

There are several ways to approach the modeling of the coronal magnetic field. One is to be as precise as possible with a realistic representation of plasma behavior, often using magnetohydrodynamic models. The other is to make things simple and effective with nonphysical but justified assumptions which allow for light computational burden. The latter, especially models relying on current-free corona and potential fields, have proved sufficient accuracy and provide a powerful method for studying the properties of the large scale solar magnetic field.

The potential field source surface (PFSS) model has been widely used since its introduction in 1969. The basic idea is to represent the magnetic field as a weighted sum of Legendre functions and spherical harmonic functions. Expanding the field to components with increasing spatial detail allows for examining the important large scale features separately, and makes it possible to compare results from data with different resolutions.

Many observatories measure and have measured the photospheric magnetic field. They are mainly in agreement, but differences occur in some spatial details and, most notably, in overall intensity. The disagreements have consequences in coronal models and comparability of results from different data sets. Possible causes for differences include e.g. spectral line selection and data derivation methods.

The longest continuous measurements of the photospheric field are from Wilcox Solar Observatory (WSO) with a time series starting from 1970s. Unfortunately WSO data has very low resolution, and uses a type of magnetograph which is known to have a nonlinear response to magnetic field strength. The WSO data also produces the most differing results compared to other observations, especially modern telescopes. This indicates that the shortages mentioned above could have a role in the differences in photospheric observations.

The motivation of this work is to investigate the effect of saturation and resolution on PFSS coefficients and hence the properties of the modeled coronal magnetic field. The basic properties of the Sun and its magnetic field are first revised. The physics behind optical measurements of magnetic fields is introduced and the principles of photospheric magnetic field observations are reviewed. The PFSS model is introduced and compared with MHD models, and finally results concerning resolution and saturation and their effect of PFSS coefficients are presented.